Cool, so now we will, let's see what
else do we have on this gradient layout,
what else.
Yeah, we have to actually add the part
where the child gets rendered cuz
right now it doesn't
get rendered anywhere.
But that's easy, all we have to
do is outside of this flexbox,
right underneath it is just
render a box with some padding.
Why so that'll be padding top and
bottom here.
We'll set some padding here.
So I don't know, 50 pixels,
let's be generous.
And we'll add the children
to be rendered here.
And that's it, now we have a very
flexible gradient layout that looks
the same across all pages and can render
whatever it wants as a child component.
So if we head back into pages index,
we can actually start
working on the index page.
So if we go look now, we should see
homepage being rendered somewhere.
It's right there, you just can't
see it cuz the text is gray, but
it's right there.
So we have that, yeah, so now what we
wanna do is go back to our design and
let's see what we actually
wanna do on this homepage.
So let's see we have
top artists this month.
So we could render all the artists here.
So if you're thinking, the database that
we have, how we can make an API call, what
are some of the things that we would have
to do to put the artists on this page?
Cuz right now we don't have
any of the resources for that.
We got to make some stuff.
So what do you think we need to make as
far as like back end to get the artists on
the page there?
Yes.
>> Make a hook to be
able to retrieve those.
>> Yeah, make a hook so
the client side can retrieve the artists.
That's good, what's another one?
>> In terms of the back end what we need?
>> Yeah,
if we ever retrieving on a client side,
that means the client side needs
to make an API call somewhere.
So we need to make an API route
to get the artists, yes Mark.
>> Get artists from the API.
>> There we go, that's right,
get artists on the API.
Yep, we will totally need to do that.
What if I told you we didn't have to
do any of that to still get the data?
[LAUGH] What, what are you talking about?
Yeah, so we could do that and
that would totally work fine, but then, so
let's walk through this.
We had to do that with
the play lists on the side
bar because the play lists
aren't part of a page.
The playlists on the sidebar are always
there, they are always gonna be there.
And because the sidebar is not in a page
component as in the sidebar is listed
inside of the component's directory and
not the page's directory,
Next.js treats them differently, right?
The pages directory, actually any
page in here has the ability to do
what's called server side data
fetching whereas a component does not.
So we had to make a client side call to
get the play list for the sidebar, but for
a page, we could actually get the data
server side before it renders.
So then you got to ask yourself,
is the data on here going to be changing
while the user is looking at it?
If that's the case,
you'd probably want to do a client side.
But is the data on this page always gonna
stay the same after the initial render?
If that's the case,
you could probably do it server side.
So there's no wrong answer here.
We can go any direction we want.
I say let's try to do it server side and
see how we like it.
If it's not good for some reason, we can
do client side, and we'll do the hooks and
we'll make like the API route.
But if we do it server side,
we don't need the hooks or the API route,
we don't need any of that,
so it's really cool.
So let's try that way.
The way we're gonna do
that is if we head over to
the pages index where we already are,
before we export,
we can export a function
called getServerSideProps.
And it's exactly what it sounds like.
It's a function that will
basically server side,
get props that it will
inject into this homepage.
So whatever props you return in this
function will be injected into this
homepage.
And because this function is gonna be
ran server side, I know it's confusing,
it's written inside of a component, so you
think it's gonna be ran in the browser.
It's not.
This function is only ever gonna be ran
when someone requests this page and
that's it.
It's gonna be ran every time
they request a page but
only when they request a page on
the server and not on the client.
So if you were to go unobfuscate,
unminimize this code and
look at it in the client,
it won't have getServerSideProps there,
Next.js strips this out.
If I import any, for instance,
we're gonna import prison on here,
that doesn't mean prison was gonna be a
client, that's gonna get stripped out too.
So any dependencies that we actually use
inside to getServerSideProps also gets
stripped out of the dependency graph and
does not get bundled with the client.
So if you're wondering, my god, I'm using
Mongo on the front end, you're not,
it's gonna get stripped out,
all that's totally fine.
And this is the power of Next.js.
This is how you can do full stack stuff
and it's like bleed, the edge is blurry.
It's like, well,
I'm actually doing some client side stuff.
I just saw it, we literally just
made this, it was client side,
why is it freaking out?
But no, you're actually doing
server side stuff here.
You have access to the cookie here,
you have access to the JWT.
You have access to that library
function that we made call off that,
can do things like that.
So we could totally do it.
But we're just gonna get the artist here.
So let's import prisma
from our lib prisma.
And this is why I made that library
prisma because we only have
one instance of prisma.
We would have to make the client every
single time which I think every time you
do that, makes a new database connection.
So now we should only have one connection.
And now we're just gonna get the artist,
so
we'll say artists = await
prisma.artist.findMany.
And I just wanna get all of them,
just wanna get all the artists,
just gonna put them here,
cuz our app is not smart enough to get
the top artists this month, I'm sorry.
We're not building that feature today.
So we're [LAUGH] just
gonna get all the artists.
And all we have to do now is to return in
this format of return an object that has
a props property on it.
And whatever props we put here,
that's what's gonna get
injected into the homepage.
So I could just say return
props with artists,
like that,
you could put whatever you want here.
This is a great place of like for
instance, my other next JS course I've
talked about how you can use this for
a CMS, where this is where you would
get data from a CMS and inject it on
a page and things like that, Mark.
>> What's the difference between
getStaticProps and getServerSideProps?
>> Good question, the question was what's
the difference between getServerSideProps
and getStaticProps.
getStaticProps is another function
that's also ran at a non client
time except it's ran at build time
whereas getServerSideProps is
ran at runtime on the server.
So getServerSideProps is gonna
execute every single time you request
this homepage,
getStaticprops is only gonna execute
when you do a static build of your site.
So if you're doing a static website
like a blog or something, you would do
getStaticProps, whereas if you were doing
like, I want this page to be dynamic,
it changes every time,
you would get getServerSideProps.
So this will probably be a dynamic
page because theoretically,
these artists will be different
depending on who's logged in.
So that's why we're doing that.
And we're not generating anything static
right now, we wanna keep this server side.
So yeah, that's the difference there.
So in the getStaticProps, you wouldn't
have access to a request cuz there isn't
a request, this happened at build time,
whereas on getServerSideProps,
you would have access to a request and
things like that.
So yeah, okay, so
we'll get server props and
then now appear we should
have access to artists.
So we can check that out.
You can see app's no longer breaking.
If we didn't return anything here,
it would freak out.
It would be like, you see right here
error serializing props returned from,
yeah, props must be
returned as a plain object.
[SOUND] So
it's you actually have to return some
something here otherwise it disagrees.
And if you do a log here, so
we do a console log on the artist,
this should show up in your terminal or
whatever the result of it is, right?
So let me actually refresh this.
Make a call and you can see right
here it does log all the artists.
So here they are, we got artists.
But now looking at the artists, I noticed
there's no avatars on these artists,
nothing here.
So we could add some images for
the artists, or
we can just add some
placeholders right now.
If we add some images, we need to go
back to our schema, add an avatar field,
make it required, run a migration,
go find some placeholder images probably,
put them in there.
Update our seed script to
reseed the database and
then we can come back and do that.
Or we can just bypass all of that and
just add,
let's add a placeholder image here in the
homepage that just does it for artists,
but that would be the process for that.